# Neurite-J

Neurite-J is an ImageJ (<http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/index.html>) plug-in
that works as an adaption of the Sholl method providing a semi-automatic
tool for neurite outgrowth quantification in organotypic cultures.
Neurite-J gives a good description of neurite growth providing counts of
neurite number and neurite area at different distances from the
organotypic explant.

Neurite-J is developed in the Neuroplasticity and Repair Group of the
University Autonomous of Barcenlona (UAB) by Dr. Abel Torres Espín.

# Installation

\*.java:

Download the java file into \.../ImageJ/pluguins/ folder. We recommends
create a NeuriteJ folder and save the file inside. To install Neurite-J
use the Plugins\>Install\... command in ImageJ interface and select the
java file.

\*.jar:

Download the jar file into your computer. To install Neurite-J drag and
drop the jar file into ImageJ window. Save the jar file into
\.../ImageJ/pluguins/ folder. A new menu call Neurite-J will appears in
the Plugins menu of ImageJ.

**Last version v1.1 (compiled)**
(![](/plugin/analysis/neurite-j/neurite_j11.jar)). A compatibility
issues with java 8 and ImageJ compiler have been solved. This version of
the plug-in is already compiled in a \*.jar file. Version compatible
with ImageJ 1.49 bundled with java 1.6 or java 1.8. To access the code
download the source code (\*.java)

**Last version v1.1 (source code)**
(![](/plugin/analysis/neurite-j/neurite_j11.java)).This version of the
plug-in works under ImageJ 1.49 bundled with java 1.6. Later versions
have not been tested.

**Neurite-J v1.01** (![](/plugin/analysis/neurite-j/neurite_j101.java)).
This version of the plug-in works under ImageJ 1.47, 1.48 and 1.49
versions for Mac Os X, Linux and Windows systems (later versions have
not been tested).

**Neurite-J v1.0** (![](/plugin/analysis/neurite-j/neurite_j148.java))
is the first available version of the Neurite-J plug-in for ImageJ
software. This version of the plug-in works under ImageJ 1.47 and 1.48
versions for Mac Os X, Linux and Windows systems (later versions have
not been tested).

# Documentation

Plug-in validation published in the Journal of Neuroscience Methods:
<http://authors.elsevier.com/a/1PalebXTOZ4ZB>

![Neurite-J 1.1 user
manual](/plugin/analysis/neurite-j/neurite_user_manual_1.1.pdf)

![Neurite-J 1.0 user
manual](/plugin/analysis/neurite-j/neuritej_user_manual.pdf)

## If you are using this plug-in, please cite us:

Torres-Espín A, Santos D, González-Pérez F, del Valle J, Navarro X.
Neurite-J: An Image-J plug-in for axonal analisys in organotypic
cultures. J Neurosci Meth 236:26--39.

# Licence

GPL <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt>

# Contat Us

For any suggestions, problems or errors communication, don\'t forget to
send an e-mail to atpspin@gmail.com with NeuriteJ as a subject.
