# Options

**A number of options to change various ImageJ user preference
settings.**

Use commands in this submenu to change various ImageJ user preference
settings.

### Line Width\...

Displays a dialog box that allows the width of lines (in pixels)
generated by the Draw command to be changed.

### Input/Output

**JPEG Quality:** Use this dialog to specify the compression level use
by the **File\>Save As\>Jpeg** command. Requesting a higher degree of
compression (a lower value) will produce smaller files, but poorer image
quality. Please note that it is **not a good idea** to use lossy-encoded
Jpeg formatted images when doing image processing and analysis. Jpeg
compression alters the content of the original image and introduces
artifacts.

The [Save As JPEG](http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/macros/SaveAsJPEG.txt) macro
creates a command that allows the user to press \"j\' to set the
compression level and save in JPEG format.

**GIF Transparent index** allows the user to specify the transparent
color used for images saved in GIF format (use -1 for \"none\").

**File Extension for Tables**: This option lets you select the default
extension (not format) when saving tables. (You may also want to install
the Excel Writer plugin).

**Use JFileChooser to Open/Save**: This options enables versions of
**File\>Open** and **File\>Save As** that use the Java JFileChooser
instead of the native OS file open and save dialogs. The main advantage
of JFileChooser is the ability to open multiple files by shift-clicking
to select multiple contiguous files and control-clicking to select more
than one individual file. On the other hand, it is slower, uses more
memory, and does not behave like the file open and save dialogs used in
other applications.

**Export Raw in Intel Byte Order**: There are different ways of saving
the byte order in a sequence. This function allows to export the raw
data in the order used by Intel x86 based processors (little-endian).
See this [Wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endiannes).

### Fonts

Opens a small window with three popup menus for specifying the type
face, size, style and antialiasing (**Smooth** checkbox) of the font
used by the text tool.

### Profile Plot Options

Use this dialog to control how plots generated by Analyze/Plot Profile
are displayed.

**Width** and **Height** specify the size of the plot in pixels.

If **Fixed Y-axis Scale** is checked, the y-axis range is fixed and the
specified **Minimum Y** and **Maximum Y** values are used, otherwise,
plots are scaled based on the minimum and maximum gray values.

Check **Do Not Save X-Values** to have \"**List**\"**,** \"**Save**\"
and \"**Copy**\" in profile plot windows display or save only y-values.

Check \*\*Auto-close \*\*to have profile plot windows automatically
closed when \"List\", \"Save\" or \"Copy\" are clicked on.

Check **Vertical Profile** to generate row average plots of rectangular
areas instead of the default column average plots.

Check **List Values** to automatically open the list of values. If
Auto-close is also checked, the plot is closed and only the list of
values remains open.

Check **Interpolate Line Profiles** to get profile values interpolated
along the line selection.

Check **Draw Grid Lines** to have gray grid lines in the plot.

### Point Tool\...

Use this dialog to configure the point selection tool. You can also
display this dialog by double-clicking on the point tool icon.

![Point Tool](/{{/gui/edit/point-tool.png)}}

If **Mark Width** is greater than zero, and **Auto-Measure** is enabled,
a mark of the specified size is drawn when you click with the point
tool. If **Auto-Measure** is not enabled, the mark is drawn when you use
the Measure command.If **Auto-Measure** is enabled, ImageJ records the
location of point tool mouse clicks.

If **Auto-Next Slice** is checked, ImageJ advances to the next stack
slice after each measurement is recorded.\
\
If **Label Points** is checked, a numerical label is added as an overlay
to the image. Press SHIFT to keep all the selected points on screen
while clicking (i.e. multiple selection).

### Colors

This dialog lets you choose (from a list) the color of the foreground,
background and selection.

### Appearance

A number of options regarding the displaying of images.

**Interpolate Zoomed Images**: self-explanatory.

**Open Images at 100%**: self-explanatory.

**Black Canvas**: This option makes the image canvas space (which is
white by default) to be rendered in black. This option is useful when
looking at X-ray images, to avoid high contrasting intensities at the
image edges.

**Use Inverting Lookup Table**: the Inverting Lookup Table renders the
image inverted grey scale values without changing the pixel values.

**Double Buffer Selections**: This option reduces flicker when working
with complex selections but it also increases memory usage and slows
screen updates. It is not needed on Mac OS X, which has built in double
buffering.

**Menu Font Size**: allows selection of the ImageJ font sizes. Use a
size of \"0\" (zero) to use Java\'s default menu font size. Changing the
font size requires a restart of ImageJ.

### Conversions

Use this dialog to set options that control how images are converted
from one type to another.\
Check **Scale When Converting** to have ImageJ scale from min-max to
0-255 when converting from 16-bits or 32-bits to 8-bits or to scale from
min-max to 0-65535 when converting from 32-bits to 16-bits.\
If **Weighted RGB Conversions** is not checked, the formula:

    gray = (red + green + blue) / 3

is used to convert RGB images to grayscale.

If this option is checked, the formula

    gray = 0.299 * red + 0.587 * green + 0.114 * blue

is used instead. The default weighting factors (0.299,0.587,0.114),
which are based on human perception, are the ones used to convert from
RGB to YUV, the color encoding system used for analog television. The
weighting factors can be modified using the
[setRGBWeights](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/developer/macro/functions.html#setRGBWeights)
macro function.

### Memory and Threads

Use this dialog to specify the maximum amount of memory available to
ImageJ.

![Memory Settings](/gui/edit/memory_settings.jpg)

Java applications such as ImageJ will only use the memory allocated to
them but this dialog allows the user to allocate more than the default
128MB. Note that specifying more than 75% of real RAM could result in
virtual RAM being used, which may cause ImageJ to become slow and
unstable. Also note that this dialog cannot be used to set the memory
allocation if ImageJ is run from the command line (linux) or by
double-clicking on ij.jar.

See this [FAQ](/faq/technical/how_do_i_increase_the_memory_in_imagej)
about increasing the memory available to ImageJ.

![ImageJ Memory
Display](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/docs/images/memory2.jpg){width="461"
height="88"}

Click on the status bar and ImageJ will display the amount of memory
currently in use and the maximum amount available. In the illustration,
129MB out of the available 1000MB, or 12%, is in use. Clicking on the
status bar also runs the Java garbage collector, which will attempt to
reclaim unused memory.

The **Parallel Threads for Stacks** which defaults to the number of
available processors was added in v1.38u.

### Compiler

Displays a dialog box with options for the **[Plugins\>Compile and
Run](/gui/plugins/compile_and_run)** function.

**Target** is the java version of the class files creted by
**Plugins\>Compile and Run**. When set to a version higher than that of
the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) running ImageJ, it will be set to the JVM
version.

Activate **Generate Debugging Info (javac -g)** for including the
information needed by Java debuggers in the class file.

### Misc

Displays a dialog box containing miscellaneous options.

![Misc
Dialog](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/docs/images/misc.jpg){width="323"
height="216"}

The **Divide by Zero Value** specifies the value used when
**Process\>Image Calculator** detects a divide by zero while dividing
one 32-bit real image by another. The default is infinity. In addition
to numeric values, \"infinity\" (positive or negative infinity), \"max\"
(largest positive value) and \"NaN\" (Not-a-Number) can be entered as
the Divide by Zero Value value.

Check **Use Pointer Cursor** and ImageJ will use an arrow cursor instead
of the default crosshair that is sometimes difficult to see on grayscale
images in areas of medium brightness. This option can also be used to
work around a bug on Windows where the text cursor is sometimes used in
place of the crosshair. Note that ImageJ must be restarted when running
v1.33l and earlier.

Check **Hide \"Process Stack?\" Dialog** to suppress the dialog that
asks \"Process all xx slices?\" (only the current slice will be
processed).

Check **Antialiased Tool Icons** to use antialiased icons. Requires
v1.37c.

Check **Require Control Key for Shortcuts** if you require to press the
CTRL key when calling shortcuts.

Check **Debug Mode** to enable display of debugging messages in the
\"Log\" window. Close the \"Log\" window to disable display of debugging
messages.
