= Open =

Reads an image and displays it in a separate window. Files must be in TIFF (uncompressed), PNG, GIF, JPEG, DICOM, BMP, PGM or FITS format. Also opens ImageJ and NIH Image lookup tables (with ".lut" extension). Additional file formats are supported via plugins installed in the Import submenu. \\

* ''' TIFF''' images can be 1-bit, 8-bits, 16-bits (unsigned), 32-bit (real) or RGB color. File may be uncompressed or LZW-compressed. TIFF files with multiple images of the same type and size open as a stack. Enable debugging using Edit/Options/Misc... and ImageJ will display the TIFF tags as the file is opened.
* '''DICOM''' (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) is a standard popular in the medical imaging community. Support in ImageJ is limited to uncompressed DICOM files. DICOM files containing multiple images open as a stack. Use Image/Show Info to display the DICOM header information. Use File/Import/Image Sequence to import a DICOM sequence. With ImageJ 1.34k and later, imported sequences are sorted by image number instead of by file name and the tags are preserved when DICOM images are saved in TIFF format. Chris Rorden's DICOM page at http://www.mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk/personal/chris.rorden/dicom.htm is a good DICOM resource.
* '''FITS''' (Flexible Image Transport System) image is the format adopted by the astronomical community for data interchange and archival storage. Use Image/Show Info to display the FITS header. Information about FITS is available from http://fits.gsfc.nasa.gov.
* '''PGM''' (Portable GreyMap), PBM (Portable BitMap) and PPM (Portable PixMap) are simple image formats that use an ASCII header. A description of these formats can be found at http://astronomy.swin.edu.au/~pbourke/dataformats/ppm/.
