= Links =

Links to other ImageJ or image analysis/processing sources in the web.

== ImageJ ==

* '''[[http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/|ImageJ Homepage:]]'''<br />This is the main ImageJ homepage maintained by Wayne Rasband.
* '''[[http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/developer/macro/functions.html|Built-in Macro Functions:]]'''<br />A list of all the macro functions, from the ImageJ website.
* '''[[http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/download/src/|ImageJ source code]]'''<br />Here is the depository of the ImageJ source code in zip format.
* '''[[https://list.nih.gov/archives/imagej.html|Maillist Archive]]'''<br />Find the archive of the ImageJ Maillist here.
* '''[[http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/notes.html|Latest documented release]]'''<br />Here is the latest documented release of the ImageJ ij.jar file
* '''[[http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/ij.jar|Daily builds of the ij.jar file]]'''<br />Here is a direct link to the daily builds of the ij.jar file. This version is not documented.
* '''[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ImageJ|ImageJ entry in the Wikipedia]]'''<br />A short introduction to ImageJ.

== Conferences on Image Processing ==

* '''[[http://conferences.visionbib.com/Iris-Conferences.html|Conferences on Image Analysis and Computer Vision]]'''<br />An overview of conferences related to image processing
* '''[[http://imagejconf.tudor.lu|ImageJ User and Developer Conference 2010]]''' <br />held the 27-19 October 2010 in Luxembourg

== Image analysis ==

* '''[[http://www.bioss.ac.uk/staff/chris.html|Image Analysis for the Biological Sciences (online)]]'''<br />An excellent book on Image Analysis applied to Biological Sciences: 'Image Analysis for the Biological Sciences' - Glasbey, C.A. and Horgan, G.W. (published by Wiley in 1995, but now out of press)
* '''[[http://www.efg2.com/Lab/|efg's Computer Lab]]'''<br />Image Processing, Color, Graphics, Fractals
* '''[[http://www.ph.tn.tudelft.nl/Courses/FIP/frames/fip.html|'''Image Processing fundamentals]]'''<br />A tutorial from Delft University of Technology.
* '''[[http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/rbf/HIPR2/|Hypermedia Image Processing Reference]]'''<br />An Image Processing reference from the Department of Artificial Intelligence in the University of Edinburgh.
* '''[[http://www.reindeergraphics.com/index.php?option=com_content&amp;task=view&amp;id=196&amp;Itemid=120|Image Analysis Cookboook]]'''<br />An online resource with lots of imaging examples, by Reindeer Graphics.
* '''[[http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/rbf/CVonline/books.htm|Computer Vision books]]'''<br />A collection of online books on Computer Vision (and related subjects).
* '''[[http://www.archive.org/details/Lectures_on_Image_Processing|Lectures on Image Processing ]]'''<br />Lectures on Image Processing: A collection of 18 lectures in pdf format from Alan Peters at Vanderbilt University. 

* '''[[http://mdigest.jrc.ec.europa.eu/|Morphology Digest ]]'''<br />The Morphology Digest list provides a communication channel between people interested in mathematical morphology and morphological image analysis.

== Spectral imaging ==

* '''[[http://www.mcb.arizona.edu/ipc/fret/| Fluorescent Spectra Interactive Database ]]'''<br />An excellent interactive site to combine and compare any and all combinations of fluorescent molecules, filters, mirrors and excitation sources.
* '''[[http://home.earthlink.net/~pubspectra/|PubSpectra]]'''<br />PubSpectra has links to files containing dye/protein, filters and light sources/other spectra. The non-spectral section contains links and information on over 5000 dyes, over 1000 fluorescent proteins and specifications on hundreds of objective lenses.

== Test images ==

* '''[[http://sipi.usc.edu/database/|The USC-SIPI Image Database ]]'''<br />A number of test images and sequences.
* '''[[http://www.ux.uis.no/~tranden/brodatz.html| Brodatz textures ]]'''<br />A collection of textured images.
* '''[[http://www.wotsit.org/|Graphic Image formats ]]'''<br />A programmer's file and data format resource. The site contains information on hundreds of different file types, data types, hardware interface details and other useful programming information; algorithms, source code, specifications, etc.

== Java ==

* '''[[https://jdk6.dev.java.net/|Mustang (Java SE 6) ]]'''<br />Source and binary snapshots of the latest Mustang version
* '''[[http://www.eclipse.org/|Eclipse ]]'''<br />An extensible development platform and application framework for building software
* '''[[http://www.netbeans.org/|NetBeans IDE ]]'''<br />Open source Java development environment and rich-client platform
