# SAVE ALL

![](/plugin/utilities/save_all/shell_save_all.png)

## Introduction

This free code is an ImageJ plugin that allows one to count the number
of synapses of a neuron.

This plugin, is a joint work between the team [\"Structural Synaptic
Plasticity\"](http://spineup.jimdo.com/) of SpineUp and [\"Programming
and Symbolic Computation Team"](https://esus.unirioja.es/psycotrip/) of
University of La Rioja.

## Author

Gadea Mata Martínez (gadea.mata *at* gmail *dot* com **or** gadea.mata
*at* unirioja *dot* es)

## Description

This plugin save all and close the opened images in the selected folder.
If the image is a stack, the plugin separate each slices in a new image,
and record each slice like a new image.

## Installation

[Version 1.0:]{.underline} (January 2014) Fixed bugs and improved. Save
all and close the opened images in the selected folder. This plugin can
work with a stack from a sequence of images too. If the input is a stack
of images, the plugin creates its Z projection with the maximun
intensity and separates all slices, to save them in the selected folder.

Download ![SaveAll\_.jar](/plugin/utilities/save_all/saveall_.jar) to
the plugins folder, or subfolder, restart ImageJ / Fiji or refresh menu
(Help → \'Refresh Menu\') , and there will be a new
\"**SaveAllImages**\" command in the Plugins menu, or submenu.

[Version 0.1:]{.underline} (This plugin can work with a stack from a
sequence of images)

Download ![Save_All.jar](/plugin/utilities/save_all/save_all.jar) to the
plugins folder, or subfolder, restart ImageJ / Fiji or refresh menu
(Help → \'Refresh Menu\') , and there will be a new \"Save All\" command
in the Plugins menu, or submenu.

[Version 0.0:]{.underline} (Save all and close the opened images in the
selected folder)

Source: ![Save All.java](/plugin/utilities/save_all/save_all.java)

Download ![Save_All.class](/plugin/utilities/save_all/save_all.class) to
the plugins folder, or subfolder, restart ImageJ / Fiji or refresh menu
(Help → \'Refresh Menu\') , and there will be a new \"Save All\" command
in the Plugins menu, or submenu.

## License

The program is **open source**; you can redistribute is and/or modify it
under the terms of the **GNU General public License**.

## Changelog

We truly hope that this program is useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.
Feel free to improve or adjust it for your needs.
