# NEURONPERSISTENTJ

![](/plugin/utilities/neuronpersistentj/abs_npj.jpg)

## Introduction

This free code is an ImageJ plugin that allows detect the neuronal
structure from image.

This plugin, is a joint work between the team [\"Structural Synaptic
Plasticity\"](http://spineup.jimdo.com/) of SpineUp and [\"Programming
and Symbolic Computation Team"](https://esus.unirioja.es/psycotrip/) of
University of La Rioja.

## Author

Gadea Mata Martínez (gadea.mata *at* gmail *dot* com **or** gadea.mata
*at* unirioja *dot* es) and Rubén Sáenz Francia (ruben.saenz *at*
unirioja *dot* es)

## Description

This plugin implement a method to detect the neuronal structure from
image (in the example, images of hippocampal neuron in culture,
transfected with Actin-GFP).

This method can be split into two steps, the first one process the image
with filters to dismiss the elements which are not part of the structure
of the main neuron, and the second one is based in the persistent
homology. This is a technique which allows one to study the lifetimes of
topological attributes.

## Installation

[Last Version (May 2013):]{.underline}

Download
![](/plugin/utilities/neuronpersistentj/neuronpersistentj_v1.jar) to the
plugins folder or subfolder. Restart ImageJ (or Fiji) or click \"Refresh
Menu\", which is at Help Menu, and the plugin \"NeuronPersistentJ_v1\"
command will be located at Menu/Plugins.

[First Version (July 2012):]{.underline}

Download ![](/plugin/utilities/neuronpersistentj/neuronpersistentj_.jar)
to the plugins folder or subfolder. Restart ImageJ (or Fiji) or click
\"Refresh Menu\", which is at Help Menu, and the plugin
\"NeuronPersistentJ\" command will be located at Menu/Plugins.

## License

The program is **open source**; you can redistribute is and/or modify it
under the terms of the **GNU General public License**.

## Changelog

We truly hope that this program is useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.
Feel free to improve or adjust it for your needs.
